CSS ZEN GARDEN

THE BEAUTY OF CSS (CASCADING STYLE SHEETS) DESIGN

A demonstration of what can be accomplished through CSS-based design. Select
any style sheet from the list to load it into this page.

Download the example html file and css file

THE ROAD TO ENLIGHTENMENT

Littering a dark and dreary road lay the past relics of browser-specific tags,
incompatible DOM (Document Object Model)s, broken CSS support, and abandoned
browsers.

We must clear the mind of the past. Web enlightenment has been achieved thanks
to the tireless efforts of folk like the W3C (World Wide Web Consortium), WaSP
(Web Standards Project), and the major browser creators.

The CSS Zen Garden invites you to relax and meditate on the important lessons
of the masters. Begin to see with clarity. Learn to use the time-honored
techniques in new and invigorating fashion. Become one with the web.

SO WHAT IS THIS ABOUT?

There is a continuing need to show the power of CSS. The Zen Garden aims to
excite, inspire, and encourage participation. To begin, view some of the
existing designs in the list. Clicking on any one will load the style sheet
into this very page. The HTML (HyperText Markup Language) remains the same, the
only thing that has changed is the external CSS file. Yes, really.

CSS allows complete and total control over the style of a hypertext document.
The only way this can be illustrated in a way that gets people excited is by
demonstrating what it can truly be, once the reins are placed in the hands of
those able to create beauty from structure. Designers and coders alike have
contributed to the beauty of the web; we can always push it further.

PARTICIPATION

Strong visual design has always been our focus. You are modifying this page, so
strong CSS skills are necessary too, but the example files are commented well
enough that even CSS novices can use them as starting points. Please see the
CSS Resource Guide (http://www.mezzoblue.com/zengarden/resources/) for advanced
tutorials and tips on working with CSS.

You may modify the style sheet in any way you wish, but not the HTML. This may
seem daunting at first if you’ve never worked this way before, but follow the
listed links to learn more, and use the sample files as a guide.

Download the sample HTML and CSS to work on a copy locally. Once you have
completed your masterpiece (and please, don’t submit half-finished work) upload
your CSS file to a web server under your control. Send us a link
(http://www.mezzoblue.com/zengarden/submit/) to an archive of that file and all
associated assets, and if we choose to use it we will download it and place it
on our server.